:leveloffset: 1
= RISC-V Code Speed Optimization SIG Meeting Minutes =

Monday 7 December 2020, 07:00 Pacific Time

////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

Document conventions:
- one line per paragraph (don't fill lines - this makes changes clearer)
- Wikipedia heading conventions (First word only capitalized)
- US spelling throughout.
////

== Summary of actions

* **Jeremy Bennett** to merge template PRD document into GitHub repository
* **Wei Wu** to commit his draft PRD to the projects directory of the repository and solicit comments from this group and the wider RISC-V tech group
* **Wei Wu** to lead a review at 4 January meeting, with a view to submitting to Toolchain & Runtimes committee on 14 January
* **Jeremy Bennett** to provide an outline PRD for B extension speed optimization for review at the next meeting
* **Jeremy Bennett** to add individual projects for each extension to the list of candidate projects
* **Jeremy Bennett** to update list of potential projects

== Welcome

The anti-trust and code of conduct notice were presented.

Attendees introduced themselves.

== Review of actions

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Clarify wording around faciliating consortia.

** Complete.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Submit final charter to TWG for ratification.

** Complete.  Note that it is the Software Steering Committee which now ratifies.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Advise Toolchain & Runtimes SC they need to own the list of software maintained by RISC-V International.

** Complete.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Update list of potential projects.

** Complete.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Advise Toolchain & Runtimes SC that they need to track
    libraries of interest to RISC-V International.

** Complete.

== Process

Jeremy Bennett and Wei Wu presented the proposed PRD document to capture the details of a project.

General agreement this is a useful approach. In many ways similar to a grant proposal. Noted that we could always change if the proposal does not meet needs.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to merge template PRD document into GitHub repository.

== Project #1: Continuous integration, testing, trace and benchmarking

Wei Wu led a discussion of the project proposal. Key points:

* Inspired by https://arewefastyet.com/[arewefastyet.com] website.
* Phase 1 - set up infrastructure with one compiler, none board and 3 JS benchmarks
* Phase 2 - add more boards, tool chains and benchmarks
* Phase 3 - yet more boards, tool chains and libraries, allow RVI members to access and upload their projects
* Timeline by August 2021, phases are milestones

Questions and comments:

* Currently uses bash scripts, but would be better being OS neutral technology, for example Python.

**ACTION:** Wei Wu to commit his draft PRD to the projects directory of the repository and solicit comments from this group and the wider RISC-V tech group.

**ACTION:** Wei Wu to lead a review at 4 January meeting, with a view to submitting to Toolchain & Runtimes committee on 14 January.

== Project #2: Compiler optimizations for upcoming extensions

Jeremy Bennett led a discussion of the project proposal.  This needs to be a series of projects one for each extension under development.

Status of current extensions, by parent TG:

* Alternative floating point formats TG

** `Zfh` is supported in GCC/binutils in RISC-V repository
** Posits no support yet

* Bit manipulation TG

** Clang/LLVM experimental support upstream
** GCC/binutils ports in RISC-V repositories and out-of-tree from various suppliers

* JIT TG

** Support from V8 by PLCT
** OpenJDK supported
** Contributions from Huawei, which has been open sourced.

* DSP TG

** Andes have GCC support
** IAR support at assembler/intrinsic level
** Question over status of register pairs
** Note that documentation has many errors in assembler examples

* Vector TG

** Support in RISC-V GCC/binutils repositories
** Experimental target support upstream in Clang/LLVM, now the primary focus.
** Two proposals for intrinsics

* `Zfinx` TG

Binutils/GCC/GDB in development by PLCT at Chinese Academy of Sciences

It was agreed that there was little point in putting effort into optimization until the basic tool chain is stable.  This leaves as candidates

* `Zfh` extension
* B extension
* J extension
* V extension

In discussion it was agreed that there was limited opportunity for speedup of the `Zfh` extension, that the J extension of itself was a speedup technology, rather than needing speeding up itself.

The SIG decided that it made more sense to start with optimization of the B extension, since the V extension would be a huge project, and we should establish our credentials with a more tractable project.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to provide an outline PRD for B extension speed optimization for review at the next meeting.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to add individual projects for each extension to the list of candidate projects.

== List of candidate projects

It was requested to add the following projects

* optimization for specific applications, e.g OpenCV, crypto
* a version of `-msave-restore` optimized for speed

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to update list of potential projects.

=== Reprioritization

The meeting ran out of time to reprioritize its list of projects, so this will be considered at the next meeting.

== Dates of future meetings

The group meets at 07:00 Pacific Time

* Monday 4 January 2021
* Monday 1 February 2021
* Monday 1 March 2021
* Monday 5 April 2021
* Monday 3 May 2021
* Monday 7 June 2021
* Monday 5 July 2021
* Monday 2 August 2021
* Monday 6 September 2021
* Monday 4 October 2021
* Monday 1 November 2021
* Monday 6 December 2021

Subgroups developing project proposals are expected to hold additional meetings open to all between monthly meetings.

== AOB

Jeremy Bennett, Candidate Chair +
Wei Wu, Candidate Co-chair
