:leveloffset: 1
= RISC-V Code Speed Optimization SIG Meeting Agenda =
Tuesday 15 December 2020, 08:00 Pacific Time

////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

Document conventions:
- one line per paragraph (don't fill lines - this makes changes clearer)
- Wikipedia heading conventions (First word only capitalized)
- US spelling throughout.
////

== Welcome

Attendees are invited to introduce themselves.

== Review of actions

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Clarify wording around faciliating consortia.

** Complete.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Submit final charter to TWG for ratification.

** Complete.  Note that it is the Software Steering Committee which now ratifies.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Advise Toolchain & Runtimes SC they need to own the list of software maintained by RISC-V International.

** Complete.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Update list of potential projects.

** Complete.

* **Jeremy Bennett.** Advise Toolchain & Runtimes SC that they need to track
    libraries of interest to RISC-V International.

** Complete.


== Process

The chair and co-chair will outline the process for developing proposals.  This will involve developing formal requirements and a briefing note.

== Project #1: Continuous integration, testing, trace and benchmarking

The co-chair will lead a discussion of this project, with a view to developing an initial outline proposal for consideration by Toolchain & Runtimes Technical Subcommittee.

== Project #2: Compiler optimizations for upcoming extensions

The chair will lead a discussion of this project, with a view to developing an initial outline proposal for consideration by Toolchain & Runtimes Technical Subcommittee.

== List of candidate projects

Members are invited to consider additional projects to be added to the priority list. This is the link:https://github.com/riscv/riscv-code-speed-optimization/blob/main/projects/candidate-projects.adoc[current list].  The outstanding projects will be prioritized by polling members attending the meeting.

Future meetings will progress current projects and typically consider initiating the next project on the list.

== Dates of future meetings

The group meets at 07:00 Pacific Time

* Monday 4 January 2021
* Monday 1 February 2021
* Monday 1 March 2021
* Monday 5 April 2021
* Monday 3 May 2021
* Monday 7 June 2021
* Monday 5 July 2021
* Monday 2 August 2021
* Monday 6 September 2021
* Monday 4 October 2021
* Monday 1 November 2021
* Monday 6 December 2021

Subgroups developing project proposals are expected to hold additional meetings open to all between monthly meetings.

== AOB

Members are invited to raise any other items of business.

Jeremy Bennett, Candidate Chair +
Wei Wu, Candidate Co-chair
