:leveloffset: 1
= RISC-V Code Speed Optimization SIG Meeting Agenda =
Monday 4 January 2021, 07:00 Pacific Time

////
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

Document conventions:
- one line per paragraph (don't fill lines - this makes changes clearer)
- Wikipedia heading conventions (First word only capitalized)
- US spelling throughout.
////

== Welcome

Attendees are invited to introduce themselves.

== Review of actions

* **Jeremy Bennett** to merge template PRD document into GitHub repository

** Complete.

* **Wei Wu** to commit his draft PRD to the projects directory of the repository and solicit comments from this group and the wider RISC-V tech group

** Wei Wu to report.

* **Wei Wu** to lead a review at 4 January meeting, with a view to submitting to Toolchain & Runtimes committee on 14 January

** See agenda item <<project-1, Project #1>>.

* **Jeremy Bennett** to provide an outline PRD for B extension speed optimization for review at the next meeting

** See agenda item <<project-2, Project #2>>.

* **Jeremy Bennett** to add individual projects for each extension to the list of candidate projects

** Complete.

* **Jeremy Bennett** to update list of potential projects

** Complete.


== Report back from Toolchain & Runtime SC

The chair will report back on the Toolchain & Runtime Subcommittee, which has asked for changes to this group's charter.

[[project-1]]
== Project #1: Continuous integration, testing, trace and benchmarking

The co-chair presented the draft PRD at our previous meeting.  This session will review that proposal for consideration by Toolchain & Runtimes Technical Subcommittee on 14 January 2021.

[[project-2]]
== Project #2: Compiler optimizations for the bit manipulation extension

The chair will present a draft PRD for consideration. A project lead to develop this proposal fully is sought.

== List of candidate projects

Members are invited to consider additional projects to be added to the priority list. This is the link:https://github.com/riscv/riscv-code-speed-optimization/blob/main/projects/candidate-projects.adoc[current list].  The outstanding projects will be prioritized by polling members attending the meeting.

Future meetings will progress current projects and typically consider initiating the next project on the list.

== Dates of future meetings

The group meets at 07:00 Pacific Time

* Monday 1 February 2021
* Monday 1 March 2021
* Monday 5 April 2021
* Monday 3 May 2021
* Monday 7 June 2021
* Monday 5 July 2021
* Monday 2 August 2021
* Monday 6 September 2021
* Monday 4 October 2021
* Monday 1 November 2021
* Monday 6 December 2021

Subgroups developing project proposals are expected to hold additional meetings open to all between monthly meetings.

== AOB

Members are invited to raise any other items of business.

Jeremy Bennett, Candidate Chair +
Wei Wu, Candidate Co-chair
